# Sales Performance & CRM Analysis for Binary Units, inc.

# Project Summary

## Introduction
The goal of this project was to provide the fictional computer hardware sales company, Binary Units Inc., with an analysis of their client relationship management (CRM) platform activity. The aim was to increase their understanding of their sales performance, project revenue, and improve sales strategies and practices for the future.

## Background
CRM usage among all types of sales organizations has become more common and integral to organizations that want to improve performance as well as project revenue more effectively. Although the importance of CRMs has been widely accepted and adopted by C-suite executives in various arenas, what should be measured, why, and how it should be managed is an ongoing debate. By diving into a synthetic dataset of sales activity, I was able to demonstrate the most valuable KPIs discoverable pertaining to this fictitious company and provide recommendations with real-world benefits to any sales-driven organization.

## Technical Details
Python was used to perform exploratory data analysis (EDA), cleaning, and join multiple entities before accessing via Tableau for visualization and analytical purposes. Excel was used for some minor EDA verification steps. PowerPoint assisted with slide creation to be integrated into Tableau for the final presentation. The dataset was created by Kaggle user ‘Agung Pambudi’ and is accessible [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/agungpambudi/crm-sales-predictive-analytics?select=sales_pipeline.csv). Only one external resource was referenced to support my contextual understanding of a benchmark for closing ratio, accessible [here](https://zety.com/blog/sales-statistics).

## Implementation
Most of the technical steps worthy of documentation are specific to EDA and cleaning done with Python in `.ipynb` files. All steps taken to analyze and visualize data in Tableau are visible by exploring the final Tableau story file provided with this technical summary. The Tableau story is also available on Tableau Public [here](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/thomas.best1243/viz/Binary_Units_wip_50/Story1). A chronological summary of the essential technical steps taken is provided in this repository under the text file `technical_summary`. All files referenced therein are available in this repository.

## Results & Conclusion
Having analyzed fictional computer hardware company Binary Units’ CRM data, my recommendations to the client are to sure up and enforce CRM policies. Four of six teams showed no prospecting activity whatsoever, which is either hard to believe or problematic for growth if true. I recommend expanding data collection by including prospecting date fields for appointment setting techniques like cold calling, walk-ins, and emails to be able to determine the effectiveness and appointment setting ratios of each method. Changing the interface so that it forces salespeople to enter account names even during the prospecting stage would help the company refine its projection model and have a repository of leads to pull from when sellers depart the company while minimizing undesired sales agent to account crossover. Management should consider assigning accounts to individual sellers and use my analysis to determine which sales agents do best with which accounts. Binary Units should explore causes of seasonal divergence and convergence of won and lost deal quantity and work with top managers and salespeople to understand their winning strategies. Distribution of total revenue by account and performance by product suggest Binary Units is positioned to upsell existing large accounts. Targeting retail and tech companies should bring success, but marketing and entertainment industries also show potential based on closing ratio and quantity of deals done for each. For salespeople looking to take big swings with their prospecting strategies, the number of employees per account seems to correlate highly and positively with closed revenue per account.
